<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-US">
	<head>
		<title>XXV</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="chapter-25" epub:type="chapter">
			<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XXV</h3>
			<p>вҖңYou mark my words, LilyвҒ вҖ”Wadsworth Robinson is going to make May an offer, and whatвҖҷs more, I believe sheвҖҷs going to take him. LookвҒ вҖ”heвҖҷs really not bad lookingвҒ вҖ”not <span class="it">handsome</span>, but kind of niceвҒ вҖ”вҖқ</p>
			<p>Lily joined Maggie in gazing out from behind a pinch back of bedroom window curtain. Mr.В Robinson propped his bicycle against a tree, took off the clips that held his white tennis trousers tight around his ankles, straightened a small white hat above his serious red-brown face, and took a box from the net hammock on his handlebars. вҖңChocolates,вҖқ said Lily.</p>
			<p>May had been watching, too, with a feeling of fingers closing around her heart, squeezing it lightly. Her knees trembled and she felt suddenly weak, and had to sit down on her bed a momentвҒ вҖ”had to fling herself down with her face in the pillow.</p>
			<p>She knew that he loved her, that he was going to ask her to marry him. And she was going to marry him. She shook with fascinated terror, dark excitement. This way, alone, with her face pressed into the pillow, she loved him.</p>
			<p>She got up, patted a dust of powder over her flaming cheeks, and ran downstairs, and her sisters heard her company voice cry:</p>
			<p>вҖңWhy, I didnвҖҷt know you were here! IsnвҖҷt it a heavenly day for tennis? VictorвҖҷs gone over for Daisy, theyвҖҷll be here soon, I guess.вҖқ</p>
			<p>If only he had gone on from the place he had reached in her dream! Already she had taken him past the need of words. But he was himself, so much less real to her than her idea of him.</p>
			<p>вҖңIt certainly is a beautiful day! IвҖҷm looking forward to our game of tennis very much.вҖқ</p>
			<p>вҖң<span class="it">Very much</span>вҖқ! Oh, oh, how tepid! And yet there was nothing tepid in the way he was looking at her. Wings fluttered in her breast, and her voice changed from company voice to a light shaken chime of bells, the secret of life escaped through it, though the words it was crying were only:</p>
			<p>вҖңOh, for <span class="it">me</span>? Oh, you shouldnвҖҷt haveвҒ вҖ”chocolates!вҖқ</p>
			<p>вҖңAnd bonbons,вҖқ he pointed out.</p>
			<p>Victor and Daisy played against May and Mr.В Robinson. May felt like a soap-bubble, bounding, gleaming, bright color swirling into bright color. Mr.В Robinson couldnвҖҷt take his eyes off her, he never even looked at Daisy, except abstractedly, as if she were a cow or a tree. His faithful dog eyes followed May, you could almost see a loving tail wagging.</p>
			<p>вҖңStay to supper,вҖқ Maggie invited him and Daisy. She didnвҖҷt want Daisy, but she couldnвҖҷt ask one and not the other.</p>
			<p>вҖңOh, my dear! Rapture and bliss <span class="it">if</span> there was any way of letting my old Sambo knowвҒ вҖ”heвҖҷs feeling kind of mean, and most likely heвҖҷs in bed and asleep; still, I guess I ought to send word. Our telephone would certainly be a lot more useful if any other of the folks out here had one.вҖқ</p>
			<p>вҖңIвҖҷll go over on my bicycle,вҖқ suggested Mr.В Robinson in his deep serious voice, вҖңAnd tell Mother on the way that I wonвҖҷt be home either.вҖқ</p>
			<p>вҖңOh, <span class="it">would</span> you? Angel of light <span class="it">and</span> mercy! IвҖҷll love you for life!вҖқ</p>
			<p>вҖңThereвҖҷs a moon tonight,вҖқ said Mr.В Robinson in a voice vibrating with meaning. He only meant May to hear, but Daisy heard too, and burst into screams of laughter as he pedalled out of the drive, ringing his bicycle bell to the empty road.</p>
			<p>вҖңвҖҠвҖҳThereвҖҷs a moon tonight,вҖҷвҖҠвҖқ she mimicked, deep in her throat. вҖң<span class="it">Ow!</span> I shall die! May, heвҖҷs going to propose! WouldnвҖҷt you <span class="it">know</span> heвҖҷs the kind of fellow wouldnвҖҷt think a proposal was legal unless it was by moonlight?вҖқ</p>
			<p>вҖңOh, donвҖҷtвҒ вҖ”!вҖқ cried Maggie.</p>
			<p>вҖң<span class="it">Ow! Ow!</span> My side! Where did he get that hat?вҖқ</p>
			<p>вҖңвҖҠвҖҳWhere did you get that hat?вҖҷвҖҠвҖқ sang Victor, and he picked up a little white paper bonbon case from Mr.В RobinsonвҖҷs box, put it on his head, seized LilyвҖҷs palm leaf fan, and gave an imitation of him playing tennis that made them laugh until they cried.</p>
			<p>вҖңOh! Oh!вҖқ May was nearly sobbing. вҖңDid you ever see anything so much too small as it was, and so white, and so <span class="it">new</span>! If it hadnвҖҷt been so <span class="it">new</span>! But it might just as well have had вҖҳBought for the occasionвҖҷ printed all over it in large black lettersвҒ вҖ”oh! I shall never be able to keep a straight face when I look at him againвҒ вҖ”вҖқ</p>
			<p>And she laughed and laughed, with the tears rolling down her cheeks, until she was almost screamingвҒ вҖ”faint, sobbing screams, like something dying.</p>
			<p>The moon turned the river to silver silk and showed frills of white flowers edging the garden paths. The air was drenched with moonlight and fragrance. And all evening May kept close to Victor and Daisy in the garden, though they certainly didnвҖҷt want her. But she wasnвҖҷt going to be left alone with that silly, solemn thingвҒ вҖ”вҒ </p>
			<hr class="tbk"/>
			<p>Maggie could stop worrying about Daisy, for she had gone awayвҒ вҖ”gone away forever. Cousin Sam doubled up groaning one day on his old leather sofa, said to her, trying to smile, вҖңDonвҖҷt you worry, honey,вҖқ and died. And Daisy cried as if her heart were broken, and, covered with crГӘpe, yards and yards and yards of crГӘpe, went back to New York as fast as she could go, hardly stopping long enough to say goodbye, even to Victor. Meadowbrook was sold to strangers now.</p>
			<p>A year later they saw her picture in вҖңTypes of Fair WomenвҖқ in MunseyвҖҷs Magazine, and learned that she had married again. His sisters were afraid Victor would mind, and tried to break it to him gently, but he had heard it already and didnвҖҷt seem to mind at all.</p>
			<p>вҖңWell, <span class="it">thatвҖҷs</span> a relief!вҖқ thought Maggie, and yetвҒ вҖ”how could he be so cheerful, when he had seemed really to love Daisy? вҖңVictorвҖҷs unselfish,вҖқ she told herself. вҖңWhen heвҖҷs unhappy he keeps it to himself.вҖқ</p>
			<p>For a few hours they were excitedвҒ вҖ”but God performed again his miracle of changing the water into wine, as the summer rains were bottled in the purple and pale-green globes of the grapes; the frost killed MaggieвҖҷs dahlias; Lily scalded her hand; the organ-grinder came, playing his hollow plaintive tune and jerking his monkey on its chainвҒ вҖ”there were other things to think of happening all the time. They seemed so importantвҒ вҖ”and then they were over, and no one remembered them at all.</p>
			<p>For the second time the thunder of war came to the CampionsвҒ вҖ”more distant now, in Cuba. War with Spain was declared at the end of AprilвҒ вҖ”too beautiful a time for people to be fighting, Maggie thought, pulling down an apple-tree branch and snuffing at the red buds and rose and silver blossoms. Still, one must remember the вҖңMaine.вҖқ Victor was always singing about it.</p>
			<div class="literal-container" style="">
				<div class="literal">
					<!-- rend=';' -->
					<p class="line0">вҖңвҖҠвҖҳSpain, Spain, Spain,</p>
					<p class="line0">Why arenвҖҷt you ashamed?</p>
					<p class="line0">Why, why, why,</p>
					<p class="line0">For blowing up the Maine?</p>
					<p class="line0">One, two, three,</p>
					<p class="line0">And Cuba will go free,</p>
					<p class="line0">ThereвҖҷll be a hot time</p>
					<p class="line0">In the old town</p>
					<p class="line0">Tonight!вҖҷвҖҠвҖқ</p>
				</div>
			</div>
			<!-- end rend -->
			<p>How terrible it must be there for our poor soldiers. The sisters, looking through the dim windows of the newspapers, saw palm trees against quivering blue, and small lizards with flickering tongues darting across earth cracked open with the heat, across men who lay too still to frighten them. And men were dying of thirst and feverвҒ вҖ”that was worse than having a bullet sing home to your heart. It seemed cruel to sit on the shady porch, drinking cold water, throwing what was left over the rail onto the lily-of-the-valley bed. And yet it was so hard to realize. It was as if the newspapers had made up a series of exciting stories.</p>
			<p>вҖңIsnвҖҷt it <span class="it">dreadful</span>?вҖқ the Campions would say solemnly, reading, and then, kindling, вҖңWell for pit-tyвҖҷs <span class="it">sake</span>вҒ вҖ”Raymond LineвҖҷs going to marry that Dawson girl with the funny nose!вҖқ Or Mrs.В Kelsey was advertising for a cook, or, most exciting of all, VictorвҖҷs name appeared. вҖңLook, May! Look, Maggie! HereвҖҷs Victor in <span class="it">again</span>! вҖҳMr.В and Mrs.В Edgar H. Snare entertained a merry party of young people in honor of their daughter Miss Lola at a picnic supper on the banks of the beautiful Brandywine, those enjoying their hospitality includingвҖҷвҒ вҖ”mmвҒ вҖ”mmвҒ вҖ”hereвҒ вҖ”вҖҳMr.В V. ChampionвҖҷвҒ вҖ”<span class="it">Champion!</span> How idiotic! WouldnвҖҷt you think theyвҖҷd know by <span class="it">this</span> time? TheyвҖҷve had him in often enough. Where are the scissors? I want to cut it out for him.вҖқ</p>
			<p>Yes, it was hard really to feel that a war was going on, although old ladies named their canaries вҖңDewey,вҖқ men cheerfully whistled вҖңGoodbye, Dolly, I must leave you,вҖқ and вҖңJust as the sun went down,вҖқ and little boys turned their hats up in front and were Rough Riders, shouting вҖңGiddap!вҖқ to their bicycles, and hissing beds of red and yellow cannas because they were SpainвҖҷs colors.</p>
			<p>вҖңDid you ever know May had a friend named Allen Jermayne?вҖқ Lily asked Maggie.</p>
			<p>вҖңNo, I never heard of him.вҖқ</p>
			<p>вҖңShe says heвҖҷs fighting, heвҖҷs a captain, a West Point man. She says she hasnвҖҷt any photograph of him, that he never would have one taken, but she has a drawing of a Gibson man she says is the image of him. She acts awfully funny about it. I havenвҖҷt seen any letters from Cuba, have you? But she showed me a whole pile tied up with blue ribbon, and I could just see вҖҳMy loveliestвҖҷ something or other before she pulled them away. And she showed me some flowers he sent her from San Juan HillвҒ вҖ”she said they were tropical flowers.вҖқ</p>
			<p>вҖңWhat like?вҖқ</p>
			<p>вҖңSort of like pressed poppies.вҖқ</p>
			<p>вҖңWell, sheвҖҷs been tearing up for the mail every dayвҒ вҖ”we wouldnвҖҷt have seen them. Oh, Lily, I do wishвҒ вҖ”Allen Jermayne! A. J.! I do believe thatвҖҷs the man she danced with all evening that time she had such fun in Wilmington, ages and ages ago. I <span class="it">think</span> it was A. J.вҖқ</p>
			<p>вҖңIвҖҷm going to be married as soon as the war is over,вҖқ May told them one day. вҖңIвҖҷm going to marry Captain Allen Jermayne.вҖқ And Maggie, feeling as if a fist had crashed between her eyes, knew that May was lying even before she turned scarlet and burst into tears.</p>
			<p>Even Lily didnвҖҷt believe it. And May only pretended half-heartedly. She told them one day that Captain Jermayne had been killed, and she wore a black dress and let the others go for the mail once more. After that none of them ever spoke of it again.</p>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
